Chris Fenton
CSF - Ethics Seminar
2/15/2016
Week 7


I would use the common good approach to ownership and make the case that my work is intended to be shared freely under a creative commons license. My goal as a student, and our goal as a university, should be to engage in a community of learners. An important part of a learning community is access to information. Students currently face many financial obstacles in obtaining the information that is vital to their education. The cost of tuition and textbooks place a heavy burden on many students. Although I understand that there are costs associated with creating the tools and environment needed for a formal university, and I wouldn’t suggest that professors, support staff, and textbook authors not be paid for their labor, I believe the larger learning community would be better served by free and open access to digital information. My research paper is part of a larger work that I plan on releasing under a creative commons license to be freely published on the Internet. By forcing me to grant ownership of my work to a third party, you do the larger community of learners a disservice.


I propose that we find an alternative form of plagiarism detection that doesn’t claim ownership of submitted material. Turnitin.com, one of the most popular plagiarism detectors, doesn’t claim ownership of submitted material. Here’s an excerpt from their usage policy:


  Turnitin agrees that students should own the copyright to their original work. A common misconception is that students relinquish their ownership rights when they submit papers to Turnitin. This simply isn’t true!

  Students who submit papers to Turnitin retain the copyright to the work they created. A copy of submitted papers is retained in a Turnitin database archive to be compared with future submissions—a practice that helps protect and strengthen copyright ownership.


By allowing students to retain ownership of their work, we give them the opportunity to give back to the learning community. In my case, giving me the option to publish my work under a creative commons would enhance the greater learning community by having more access to information.
